8 domains of cybersecurity 

1 security and risk management
    focuses on defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity and the law.

    For example, security analysts may need to update company policies related to private health information if a change is made to a federal compliance regulation such as the health insurance portability and accountability act also know as HIPPA.

    All organizations must develop their security posture. Security posture is an organization's ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. Elements of the security and risk m management domain that impact the an organization's security posture include:
        1. Security goals and objectives
        2. Risk mitigation processes
        3. compliance
        4. business continuity plans
        5. legal regulations
        6. professional and organizational ethics

    Information security, or infoSec, is also related to this domain and refers to a set of processes established to secure information. An Organization may use playbooks and implement training as a part of their security and risk management program, based on their needs and perceived risk. There are many infoSec design processes, such as:

        1. incident response
        2. vulnerability management
        3. application security
        4. cloud security 
        5. infrastructure

    as an example, a security team may need to alter how PII is treated in order to adhere to the GDPR

2 Asset Security
    This domain focuses on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data. 
    
    When working with this domain, security analysts may be tasked with making sure that old equipment is properly disposed of and destroyed, including any type of confidential information

    Asset security involves managing the cybersecurity processes of organizational assets, including the storage maintenance, retention, and destruction of physical and virtual data. Because the loss of theft of assets can expose an organization and increase the level of risk, keeping track of assets and the data they hold is essential. Conducting a security impact analysis, establishing a recovery plan, and managing data exposure will depend on the level of risk associated with each asset. Security analysts many need to store, maintain, and retain data by creating backup to ensure they are able to restore the environment if a security incident places the organization's data at risk



3 Security Architecture and Engineering
    This domain focuses on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place.

    As a security analyst, you nay be tasked with configuring a firewall. A firewall is a device used to monitor and filter incoming and outgoing computer network traffic. Setting up a firewall correctly helps prevent attack that could affect productivity.

    This domain focuses on managing data security. ensuring effective tool, systems, and processes are in place helps protect an organization's assets and data. Security architects and engineers create these processes.

    One important aspect of this domain is the concept of shared responsibility. shared responsibility means all individuals involved take an active role in lowering risk during the design of security systems. additional design principles related to this domain:

        1. threat modeling
        2. least privilege
        3. defense in depth
        4. fail securely
        5. separation of duties
        6.keep it simple
        7. zero trust
        8. trust but verify

    an example of managing data is the use of a security information and event management (SIEM) tool to monitor for flags related to unusual login or user activity that could indicate a threat actor is attempting to access private data.

4 Communication and Network Security
    This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications.
    
    As a security analyst, you may be asked to analyze user behavior within your organization.

    This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications. this includes onsite, remote, and cloud communications.

    Organization with remote, hybrid, and onsite work environments must ensure data remains secure, but managing external connections to make certain that remote workers are securely accessing an organizations networks is a challenge. Designing network security controls - such as restricted network access - can help protect users and ensure an organizations network remains secure when employees travel or work outside of the main office.

5 Identity and Access management
    Identity and access management focuses on keeping data secure, by ensuring users follow established policies to control and mange physical assets, like office spaces, and logical assets, such as networks and applications. 
    Validating the identities of employees and documenting access roles are essential to maintaining the organization's physical and digital security.

    For example, as a security analyst, you may be tasked with setting up employees' keycard access to buildings.

    The identity and access management (IAM) domain focuses on keeping data secure. It does this by ensuring user identities are trusted and authenticated and that access to physical and logical assets us authorized. This helps prevent unauthorized users, while allowing authorized users to preform their tasks.

    Essentially, IAM uses what is referred to as the principle of least privilege, which is the concept of granting only the minimal access and authorization required to complete a task. As an example, a cybersecurity analyst might be asked to ensure that customer service representatives can only view the private data of a customer, such as their phone number, while working to resolve the customer's issue; then remove access when the customer's issue is resolved.

6 Security assessment and testing

    This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and Vulnerabilities. 
    Security analyst may conduct regular audits of user permissions, to make sure that users have the correct level of access.

    For example, access to payroll information is often limited to certain employees, so analysts may be asked to regularly audit permissions to ensure that no unauthorized person can view employee salaries.

    The security assessment and testing domain focuses on identifying and mitigating risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. Security assessments help organizations determine whether their internal systems are secure or at risk. Organizations might employ penetration testers, often referred to as 'pen testers', to find vulnerabilities that could be exploited by a threat actor.

    This domain suggests that organizations conduct security control testing, as well as collect and analyze data. Additionally, it emphasizes the importance of conducting security audits to monitor for and reduce the probability of a data breach. To contribute to these types of tasks, cybersecurity professionals my be tasked with auditing user permissions to validate that users have the correct levels of access to internal systems.

7 Security Operations
    This domain focuses on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures.
    
    Imagine that you, as a security analyst, receive an alert that an unknown device has been connected to your internal network. You would need to follow the organization's policies and procedures to quickly stop the potential threat.

    The security operations domain focuses on the investigation of a potential data breach and the implementation of preventative measures after a security incident has occurred. This includes using strategies, processes, and tools such as:
        1. training and awareness
        2. reporting and documentation
        3. intrusion detection and prevention
        4. SIEM tools
        5. log management
        6. incident management
        7. playbooks
        8. post-breach forensics
        9. reflecting on lessons learned

    The cybersecurity professionals involved in this domain work as a team to manage, prevent, and investigate threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. These individuals are trained to handle active attacks, such as large amounts of data being accessed from an organization's internal network, outside of normal working hours. Once a threat is identified, the team works diligently to keep private data and information sage from threat actors.


8 Software Development Security 
    This domain focuses on using secure coding practices, which are a set of recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services.
    A security analyst may work with software development teams to ensure security practices are incorporated into the software development life-cycle.

    If, for example, one of your partner teams is creating a new mobile app, then you may be asked to advised on the password policies or ensure that any user data is properly secured and managed.

    The software development security domain is focused on using secure programming practices and guidelines to create secure applications. Having secure applications helps deliver secure and reliable services, which helps protect organizations and their users.

    Security must be incorporated into each element of the software development cycle, from design and development to testing and release. To achieve security, the software development process must have security in mind at each step. Security cannot be an afterthought.

    Preforming application security tests can help ensure vulnerabilities are identified and mitigated accordingly. Having a system in place to test the programming conventions, software executables, and security measures embedded in the software is necessary. Having quality assurance and pen tester professionals ensure the software has met security and performance standards is also an essential part of the software development process.

    For example, an entry-level analyst working for a pharmaceutical company might be asked to make sure encryption is properly configured for new medical device that will store private patient data.